# Final text

The static conformations and structural dynamics of biological
macromolecules are of great interest to biological researchers.
Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) is a technique for probing
intramolecular distances within a single molecule over time by
examining photon emissions resulting from a distance-dependent energy
transfer process.

While FRET has enabled a variety of biologically relevant measurements
[@Lilley2005, @Vefabakhsh2012, @Andrec2003], the lack of a common
high-quality analysis toolkit for analyzing data from FRET experiments
and its many variants has hindered reproducibility and substantially
raised the barrier to realizing a fluorescence spectroscopic
experiment.  The product of a FRET experiment is typically a set of
>10⁶ time-stamped photons. The task of filtering background from
foreground, correcting for experimental artifacts, and inferring the
observed signal can often pose a formidable challenge.

I have been working to release our analysis pipeline, `hphoton`[1],
(as with all of my code) under a BSD license. In addition to these
analysis tools, we also have developed a suite of open-source hardware
and software for photon counting experiments. Our timetagger hardware
provides a extensible platform for acquiring photon timestamp data
along with a user-friendly interface. Meanwhile, the `photon-tools`[3]
package provides an extensive toolchain for working with photon
timestamp data.

  [1] http://github.com/bgamari/hphoton


# References

@Lilley2005:
    Iqbal, A., Arslan, S., Okumus, B., Wilson, T. J., Giraud, G.,
    Norman, D. G., Ha, T., et al. (2008). Orientation dependence in
    fluorescent energy transfer between Cy3 and Cy5 terminally
    attached to double-stranded nucleic acids. Proceedings of the
    National Academy of Sciences, 105(32),
    11176. doi:10.1073/pnas.0801707105

@Vafabakhsh2012
    Vafabakhsh, R., & Ha, T. (2012). Extreme bendability of DNA less
    than 100 base pairs long revealed by single-molecule
    cyclization. Science (New York, N.Y.), 337(6098),
    1097–101. doi:10.1126/science.1224139

@Andrec2003
    Andrec, M., Levy, R. M., & Talaga, D. S. (2003). Direct
    Determination of Kinetic Rates from Single-Molecule Photon
    Arrival Trajectories Using Hidden Markov Models. The journal of
    physical chemistry. A, 107(38), 7454–7464. doi:10.1021/jp035514+

@Kapanidis2005
    Lee, N. K., Kapanidis, A. N., Wang, Y., Michalet, X.,
    Mukhopadhyay, J., Ebright, R. H., & Weiss, S. (2005). Accurate
    FRET Measurements within Single Diffusing Biomolecules Using
    Alternating-Laser Excitation. Biophysical journal, 88(4),
    2939–53. doi:10.1529/biophysj.104.054114


      

# Scribblings

In recent years, FRET has enabled high-resolution studies of
macromolecular geometry [@Lilley2005], studies of mechanical
flexibility [@Vekabesh2012], as well enzyme kinetics [@]. While the
techniques


Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) is a common spectroscopic
technique for examining conformation and structural dynamics of small
macromolecules. FRET is unique in its ability to probe intramolecular
distances within a single molecule over time by looking at photon
emissions resulting from a distance-dependent energy transfer process.


 * need for open toolkit for collection and analysis of experimental data:
   * open
   * implement sound, statistical inferences
 * bayes-stack
   * general purpose Bayesian modelling package
   * supports Gibbs sampling as primarymeans
 * hphoton
   * a suite of analysis tools for examining timestamped fluorescence data
 * hardware
   * 
 

Perhaps doesn't fit,

 * data acquisition hardware
   * flexiblity to enable new experimental techniques (e.g. ALEX)
   * open up fluorescence experiments

 * photon-tools
   * FCS
